```
CURRENT REVISION AS OF Wed 25 Nov 2020 01:05:28 PM EST
```

# Overview

Signalboost is a messaging service that allows small groups of admins to send encrypted "broadcast" messages to, and receive encrypted "hotline" messages from, groups of up to several thousand subscribers over the Signal Private Messenger service.

Two of its important design properties are:

1. Admins and subscribers can send encrypted messages to each other without knowing each other's phone numbers or any other personally identifying information about each other
2. If a user's phone is seized or otherwise compromised, no identifying information about the admins or subscribers is leaked to the person who has compromised the phone

We currently achieve these objectives by:

1. Routing messages between admins and subscribers through a proxy signal phone number controlled by the Signalboost server(s), which we call a "channel"
2. Storing admin and subscriber phone numbers in cleartext membership tables in a database on the Signalboost server(s) (necessary for routing messages and checking admin permissions)
3. Storing key material and other metadata (including user phone numbers) contained in the Signal Protocol Store on the Signalboost server(s) (necessary to advance the Signal double-ratchet algorithm between proxy phone numbers and user phone numbers, so that they may exchange messages).

This design leaves valuable metadata about which phone numbers use which Signalboost channels (and, in some cases, when they use the channel) vulnerable to seizure by an adversary who can compromise the Signalboost server either by technical attack, legal compulsion, or social engineering of a project maintainer.

The purpose of this design doc is to design a system for maintaining the above desirable properties of concealing user identities from each other while rendering the system resilient to attacks that would leak user identities to someone with control of the Signalboost server(s).

We first outline the contours of our security objectives, threat model, and design constraints, then proceed to offer several candidate designs to achieve our objectives given our threat model and constraints.

All designs involve some variation on encrypting user data at rest to the public key of an asymmetric keypair, the private key of which is encrypted to another (symmetric) key that is controlled by users, stored on a client not accessible to the Signalboost server, and transmitted by the client to the server to temporarily decrypt and re-encrypt data on an as-needed basis. We derive the general schema of this approach from [TREES](https://0xacab.org/liberate/trees), the library that [riseup.net](https://riseup.net) uses to encrypt email contents at rest.

This is intended to be a living document.

Its revision history can be accessed here:

https://0xacab.org/team-friendo/signalboost/-/merge_requests/487/commits

Anyone may offer comment, critique, or suggested revisions here:

https://0xacab.org/team-friendo/signalboost/-/merge_requests/487

# Security Objectives

TK-TODO

# Threat Model

## Assets

TK-TODO

## Adversaries

TK-TODO

## Attacks

TK-TODO

# Design Constraints

TK-TODO

# Provisional Designs

Below, we offer some provisional design proposals that we do not believe to be comprehensive, but which we hope provide an adequate frame of reference within which to debate alternatives and build out an iterative series of designs that progress toward above-specified objectives with increasing levels of rigor and precision. We offer these designs with the hope that they will more precisely elaborate the contours of the problem space, so that readers and collaborators may improve upon them.

No matter what design we ultiamtely adopt, there must be key material to which we encrypt user data, a place to store that key material that is not accessible to the Signalboost server, and a way of transmitting that material to the Signalboost server so that it may temporarily decrypt user data. In the "Foundation" section below, we offer a sketch of a design to satisfy these baseline requirements. In the "Variations" section we move on to consider various mechanisms for transmitting the key material from client to server and between different clients.

## Foundation

### Encryption of user data to key not controlled by server

By default, all identifying user data for a given channel -- by which we mean the rows in the membership table corresponding to a given channel and the serialized data from the Signal Protocol Store, which may either be in database tables or serialized to the filesystem in JSON format -- will be encrypted to the public key of an asymmetric keypair.

The private key of this keypair will be stored on the Signalboost server, but it will be encrypted to a symmetric key that is generated by an external client and is not stored on the server, such that only a client that can provide this secret key material can control the private key and thus decrypt the user data.

Let us call the members of the assymetric keypair EK and DK (for "encryption key" and "decryption key") and the secret key that unlocks the private key of this keypair SK. Whenever a client wishes to perform operations that require access to user metadata (such as routing broadcast messages from admins to subscribers or routing hotline messages from subscribers to admins), it will use the symmetric key SK to decrypt the private key, DK, and use DK to decrypt the relevant user data, which has been encrypted to EK.

All decryption operations will only load cleartext data into memory. At no point will unencrypted data be persisted to disk. When the necessary operations are complete, decrypted key material and user data will be wiped from memory, leaving the only accessible version of the data in an encrypted state.

For ease of communication, we will refer to this process of decrypting key material and user data as "unlocking" and "locking" a channel. There are several possibilities for how and when the unlock/lock cycle may be triggered by a client, which we will address in the "Variations on client-server key transmission" section below.

### Transmission of key from client to server

Admins install a client application, which may run as either a native desktop application or a native Android or IOS app. Upon creation of a new channel, the client application generates secret key material, SK, which is stored locally on the filesystem such that only the client may access it. At the time of channel creation, the client also transmits SK to the Signalboost server so that the server may use it to encrypt the private key, DK, of the keypair to which user and message data for that channel will be encrypted.

All messages to and from Signalboost are composed and displayed in the client. When an admin wishes to send or receive messages, the client connects to the Signalboost server over HTTPS (or any suitably secure network protocol), and transmits the key material necessary to "unlock" the channel as described above.

When a channel with multiple admins is created, or when an existing channel adds a new admin, key material will have to be exchanged between clients in a way that does not require the Signalboost server to already know their identities. There are several variations on how this may happen, which we will address in the "Variations on client-client key transmission" section below.

### Sending broadcast messages

When an admin wishes to send a broadcast message, their client will load SK into memory and transmit it to the Signalboost server. The server will use SK to "unlock" the channel as described above (by first decrypting DK and using it to decrypt date encrypted to EK), allowing it to inspect the membership records for the channel to figure out which phone numbers should receive the broadcast. After sending the broadcast, Signalboost "locks" the channel again (by removing SK and decrypted user data from memory).
q
### Variations on client-server key transmission

#### The problem of Hotline Messages

While the broadcast scenario described above is fairly straightforward, handling hotline messages (messages from subscribers to admins) is more complex. Consider the case in which an unlocked channel receives an incoming hotline message from a subscriber. In order to determine which admins to which it should route the message, Signalboost must consult the membership table to figure out which phone numbers are admins on the channel. However, the membership table containing that information is encrypted to a key that Signalboost does not have, and which only an admin can provide. We are thus deadlocked in a circular dependency: to know who the admins are we need to unlock the channel, but to unlock the channel we need to know who the admins are.

The below two variations offer 2 potential ways to design our way out of this deadlock.

#### Variation 1: Automated Client Polling + As-Needed Decryption

Every time an incoming hotline message is received on a Signalboost channel, it is placed in a queue of incoming messages, and identified with the channel phone number to which it belongs.

On an admin-configurable interval (say, for example, every 5 minutes), the admin client will poll the server and inspect the size of the incoming messages queue. If the queue is empty, nothing happens. If the queue has messages in it, Signalboost requests the secret key material from the client and uses it to unlock the channel, discover the channel admins (from the unlocked database), and transmit all enquued messages to the admins (using the unlocked Signal Protocol Store). After draining the queue and transmitting the messages, it re-locks the channel.

For ease of communication, we will refer to this action of as-needed decryption prompted by a non-tempty message-queue as "mailbox checking" to correspond with an intuition that users already have from using email clients. As with email clients, users may use the Signalboost client to either (1) configure the interval at which their mailbox gets checked, or (2) press a "check now" button to force the client to immediately check the mailbox.

Note: this design allows an unattended client to decrypt user data without explicit manual consent for an admin. This may be acceptable, but deserves further scrutiny and analysis.

#### Variation 2: Push to Clients Over Persistent Connection

Variation 1 has the drawbacks that it (1) does not immediately notify admins of incoming messages and (2) only works if we insist that the client be able to authorized decryption without manual approval from an admin. If we wished to avoid either of those two drawbacks, we could do the following:

When a client wishes to "login" to Signalboost, it estabilishes a persistent duplex connection to the Signalboost server (over a secure Websocket or any other suitable socket protocol). If we wish to obscure the IP address of the admin, we may configure the client to maintain this connection over a Tor circuit. The client authenticates as the admin of a channel by presenting its secret key (SK), which is compared a against a hashed version of SK stored on the server.

The server maintains a lookup table of open socket connections for each channel. When an incoming socket message is received for a given channel, it consults this lookup table and broadcasts an "unlock request" message to all connected clients. If no admins for the channel are currently connected, it enqueues the message and retries it on an interval until a client connects.

##### Variation 2a: manual client-side unlock approval

If we wish to prevent the client from being able to authorize unlocking the channel without explicit approval from an admin, then the "unlock request" from the server will produce a notification in the client application (for example: a popup that says "You have incoming messages. Do you want to unlock the channel to receive them? Yes / No"), which an admin must click on to approve, at which point, the client will transmit SK to the server, which will unlock the channel, and forward all enqueued incoming messages to all admins.

##### Variation 2b: automated client-side unlock approval

If we wish to allow the client to authorize unlocking the channel without user intervention, then anytime an open client app receives an "unlock request" from the Signalboost server, it will respond by transmitting SK to the server, which will use it to unlock the channel and transmit all enqueued messages to all admins.

##### Variation 2c: user-configurable unlock approval

If we wish to allow the user whether to permit the client to approve "unlock requests" unattended, then we could create a configuration toggle in the client that allows the user to specify whether they want the client to operate in "unattended" or "manual approval" mode.

#### Variation 3: Notify Rotating List of Admins + Manually Prompted Decryption

If for whatever reason we wish to avoid the reliance on polling and automated unlocks introduced in Variation 1 or persistence client connections introduced in variation 2, then we need some way of contacting an admin to request the key material necessary to "unlock" the channel to relay incoming messages to admins.

Suppose then, that we relax the restriction that all admin phone numbers must be encrypted at all times and instead create an "on-call rotation" in which a single admin phone number is always stored in cleartext. Every time an incoming message is received, this admin receives a message from the client asking them to authorize the channel to be unlocked. Providing such authorization prompts the client to transmit the secret material to the server necessary to unlock the channel and relay the incoming message to the admins. After the message is relayed, the channel is locked again, and the "on-call" status is rotated to the next admin.

Since there is no guarantee that an admin will immediately respond to a request to unlock the channel, we must still enqueue all incoming messages encrypted to the channel's public key, and only decrypt and relay them once an admin has authorized the channel to be unlocked.

NOTE: while this eliminates the need for automated polling, it leaves at least one admin phone number exposed at all times. Further, while it holds out hopes of transmitting messages more immediately, assuming an attenting "on-call" admin, the possiblity that an admin could be unresponsive could leave the entire channel in a dormant state in which it accumulates enqueued-and-unsent messages. Depending on the amount of time that the channel is allows to remain in this dormant state, it could degrade message transmission responsiveness past a point that is acceptable to most users. We do not really think we should use this variation, but are leaving it in so we can consider all trade-offs! :)

### Variations on client-client key transmission

#### Variation 1: server-brokered key sharing

TK-TODO

#### Variation 2: p2p key sharing

TK-TODO
